[Music]
but what I'm wondering is did he bring
the work home not in the sense he didn't
pay attention but that he would talk to
you about some of the passions that were
driving him at work oh yes
just to be clear it wasn't that he was
just I mean I I've told this story but
he believed very much we should be very
much involved in what was going on so
that for instance when mother most
mothers would take their children to the
playground when there were three and
four years old my mother took us to the
Zenit rocket committee hearings and my
first words were I refused to answer
that question so it was and just so you
know my mother thought this was good not
only for us she thought it was good for
the kids in the carpool so they would
say oh no missus what happened today
mrs. Kennedy is driving so there was
always a sense that we better know
what's going on and if you didn't know
what was going on you were you know
disciplined so it was very high
standards and we'd go around the table I
mean and it was important where you sat
if you sat right next to mummy just had
to read the front page but there were a
lot of kids and then you had to go
around the table you really had to know
what was going on you asked they asked
and there's a very well-known story
about him coming back to me so they you
know my parents really didn't separate
their work life from their home life and
just as they brought us to work daddy
always had people from work at our home
and playing football with us and
swimming with us and around the dinner
table so it was always very integrated
but on the news front our breakfast
table had five newspapers and usually
six or seven magazines and as Kathleen
said we were expected to read those but
we also the den in our in our house was
known as the TV room and it was
dominated by this RCA Victor television
and the rule was because we had seven
brothers and three sisters so four
sisters
oh the rule was that whoever walked and
first could decide what was to be
watched
but that could always be trumped by
anyone who wanted to watch the news and
as a result just out of vengeance alone
no news was basically always on when you
look at these outtakes what does it tell
us about your day what do you think well
I think it chose a very very engaged
father and it's no big surprise because
his father was so engaged with with all
of their children but um it's really
interesting because if you go back and
watch like the first couple of episodes
of Mad Men that is Don Draper that is
the model of what it was to be a father
in the 1960s and that is not at all who
my dad was and I mean it's wonderful to
see those scenes of him running around
at the height of this huge crisis in the
attorney general's office and having the
kids and playing you know hot and cold
and getting them to hide under his desk
and integrating us and these are the
outtakes but also in crisis of him
asking me to get on the phone with Nick
katzenback when he's in the middle of
negotiating with George Wallace I mean
it's it's it's pretty remarkable but he
really didn't want to integrate us fully
into his life and he had this kind of
sense of humor and a sense of ease about
the difficulties that he faced that
allowed him to do that to be very
present and to always have this sense of
humor thank you I got to tell you we
could devote an entire evening just to
the more humorous aspects of what he
said and did it to me it's one of the
parts of him that's least understood but
Lawrence one of these that struck me
about these outtakes was they don't talk
the way they do on the West Wing and
Madam Secretary nobody walks around
giving the record they don't talk on
madam secretary the way they talked on
the West Wing
okay but they don't what I'm getting at
is what you get here is the the cryptic
language the long pauses Robert Kennedy
and so he's just going and just stroking
that that emblematic gesture of what art
how are we where are the pieces fitting
and if somebody who worked for a time
you know before you became pure and a
journalist how much does that capture
the way it really happens in the back
rooms of the political world
well that is my real experience which
was for working for Senator Daniel
Patrick Moynihan that would that was my
spot in government and what I think
you're watching there the Jeff is you
more than talking what you're watching
is thinking and you are watching
especially watching Bobby think because
he's the decision-maker in in this room
and and for me one of the most beautiful
and important and essential moments
there is scene-stealer Kerry has stepped
in to the attorney general's realm when
he's in the middle of a very important
conversation and you can tell it's
really important because he's not
talking he's just holding that phone and
he's listening and that means every
single word here matters and he needs to
hear the next word that's after that and
he has the tip of his fingers on Kerry's
chin at the same time and the word
multitasking had not yet been invented
and it would not apply because this was
completely integrated behavior there
wasn't a disconnection between this hand
that held the phone in this crucial
information and this hand that was doing
something equally important in his life
it's march of 1968 how much is Robert
Kennedy talking to you about whether or
not he's going to in fact run for
president how much was that a part of
the dinner conversation well I was away
at school so that wasn't part of our
dinner conversation because he I mean he
had come up
to my school and talked about what was
going on in the country and he was very
focused in light was up it's February 68
about you know what's going on in the
inner cities on one hand but also what's
going on on the reservations he was very
very focused on Native Americans and you
could see from that his desk that the
one bust he had was of an Indian so he I
mean that has nothing to do with this
whether he was talking about running
obviously it was in the air all the time
all the time from October before then so
it was always part of our conversation I
might you probably were there more yeah
I mean I was only a result bud I
remember him going around the table and
asking all of us kids what we thought
about running he's saying he was
thinking about it and what did we think
and you know people had various comments
my main concern was that we just didn't
have to move from Hickory Hill to the
White House or from a distance in the
sense that you want you know young
whippersnapper wasn't there but as you
as you looked and sort of took a time
machine back 50 years what was your
sense about what what his struggle was
about whether to do this or not
well I didn't know there was a struggle
in 1968 when I was watching it as a high
school student in Boston and watching
the whole thing unfold that whole
campaign unfold on my living room floor
on TV the only thing that I saw happened
was that gene McCarthy got in he got in
reasonably early it seemed hopeless he
goes up to New Hampshire and he shocks
the world by and I really did think gene
McCarthy won New Hampshire that's the
way the coverage was and it was actually
decades later that I discovered he came
in second and and then Bobby jumps in
the race at the end of that week and so
when you're sitting there watching only
that unfold it looks like oh so McCarthy
provides the opening he shows the
weakness of LBJ and now Bobby jumps in
and there's an
or to mystic sensation to that I had no
idea that Bobbie was thinking about it
long before gene McCarthy that al
Lowenstein had come to him that he had
said maybe a couple of times and then
went back to no and went back and forth
and I had no idea that it was such a big
an ongoing year long struggle for Bobby
to get to the point of deciding to run
and that he had actually decided to do
it before gene he had told Peter on the
weight of that's right the subtitle of
your of your book is the transformation
of American politics you you know what
they say on television in 30 seconds or
take a little more why do you count this
the Trent at the time of the
transformation of American politics
there's about a dozen important
transformations that occur that begin or
are completed in 1968 the first sentence
of the book is Roger Ailes meeting
Richard Nixon and he meets him at a talk
show or Roger Ailes is working that
changes a Republican history because
Nixon lures Roger Ailes into his
campaign Ailes goes on to help elect
every Republican president for the
remainder of else's life including the
current one who he helped elect Wilde
running Fox News Ailes it turns out ends
up having more influence on Republican
presidential politics than Nixon did
even though Nixon was elected twice to
the presidency
you saw the The Last Stand of the
Republican liberal in 1968 if you told
someone you were a Democrat we didn't
know if you were a liberal or a
conservative or a segregationist if you
said you were a Republican we were
equally on no way of knowing what you
really were now there is no such thing
as a liberal Republican they're all gone
that began in 1968 John Lindsay the
mayor of New York at the time was the
last liberal standing literally on a
Republican convention that was 1968 on
the Democratic side we saw this
insurgent left which bobby was a part of
that current has remained on the
Democratic side of presidential politics
ever since we saw it in the last run
Bernie Sanders occupied the McCarthy
the track against the presumed
establishment favorite Hilary Clinton
all of those transformations began in 68
and that's kind of the tip of the
iceberg I would just add one thing it
was the last time when you could win a
presidential nomination without winning
the primaries yep
Hubert Humphrey did not run in the
signal primary and got the nominee mean
had that campaign gone on and it had it
been a primary year there's no doubt who
would have won the nomination absolutely
you